Important Points:

If other programmers use your class, try to use the most restrictive access level that 
makes sense for a particular member. 
Use private unless you have a good reason not to.
Avoid public fields except for constants.

Must watch the image after clicking on the below link for understanding of accesss modifiers in a chart form.
Access Modifiers in Java : https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/20230409123202/Access-Modifiers-in-Java-2-768.webp
 

Algorithm to use access modifier in Java
Here’s a basic algorithm for using access modifiers in Java:
* Define a class: Create a class that represents the object you want to manage.

* Define instance variables: Within the class, define instance variables that represent the data you want to manage.

* Specify an access modifier: For each instance variable, specify an access modifier that determines 
  the visibility of the variable. The three main access modifiers in Java are private, protected, and public.

* Use private for variables that should only be accessible within the class: 
  If you want to prevent access to a variable from outside the class, use the private access modifier. 
  This is the most restrictive access modifier and provides the greatest level of encapsulation.

* Use protected for variables that should be accessible within the class and its subclasses: 
  If you want to allow access to a variable from within the class and its subclasses, 
  use the protected access modifier. This is less restrictive than private and provides some level of inheritance.

* Use public for variables that should be accessible from anywhere: 
 If you want to allow access to a variable from anywhere, use the public access modifier. 
 This is the least restrictive access modifier and provides the least amount of encapsulation.

* Use accessor and mutator methods to manage access to the variables: 
  In order to access and modify the variables, use accessor (getter) and mutator (setter) methods, 
  even if the variables have a public access modifier. This provides a level of abstraction 
  and makes your code more maintainable and testable.